---
title: "Episode 03 - Open Mic"
pubDate: 2024-11-24
description:
  "A wide-ranging discussion covering topics such as religious debates, the role
  of the church in society"
author: "Astro Basics"
summary:
  A wide-ranging discussion covering topics such as religious debates, the role
  of the church in society, and the influence of the movement on Christianity.
  They also explored the concept of God's self-revelation, the role of the
  church in addressing personal struggles, and the prevalence of issues within
  Christianity.
image:
    url: '/images/episode-03.webp'
    alt: 'An open mic conversation.'
#     caption: 'The img caption from my first blog post.'
tags: ["Open mic", "Christianity", "Church"]
publish: true
---


<iframe title="Episode  03 - Open Mic" allowtransparency="true" height="300" width="100%" style="border: none; min-width: min(100%, 330px);height:150px;" scrolling="no" data-name="pb-iframe-player" src="https://www.podbean.com/player-v2/?from=embed&i=63p52-174c3de-pb&square=1&share=0&download=1&fonts=Arial&skin=60a0c8&font-color=auto&rtl=0&logo_link=episode_page&btn-skin=7&size=300" loading="lazy" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
## Summary

Exploring Religious Texts and Beliefs Shawn and Atwell discuss various topics,
including Atwell's experience debating with Islamic scholars and their differing
interpretations of religious texts. Atwell shares how he used the Quran itself
to challenge an Islamic scholar's claims about its untranslatability. They also
touch on Atwell's nephew Alistair, a psychologist who does not believe in God.
Atwell emphasizes the importance of open-minded discussions with people of
different beliefs to gain broader perspectives.

### Christianity, Adventism, and Podcast Discussions

Atwell and Shawn discussed their past experiences and current perspectives on
Christianity and Adventism. Atwell shared his observations about the camaraderie
and discussions that used to take place before Covid, which never fully
recovered. Shawn expressed his amazement at the inability of some Adventists to
engage in scriptural discussions and shared his interest in the podcast
"Sovereignty" that interprets scripture. Shawn also explained how he uses an AI
app to create podcasts from their discussions, which includes summarizing the
content of their conversations. They also made plans to meet on Sunday morning.

### Exploring God's Self-Revelation and Christianity

Shawn and Atwell discussed the concept of God's self-revelation to humanity,
specifically referencing the passage from Exodus 6:2-3. They agreed that this
passage marked a significant turning point in the relationship between God and
His people, as it revealed a deeper, more personal understanding of God's name.
They also discussed the challenges of defining and navigating the concept of
Christianity, acknowledging that the term has been co-opted and manipulated by
various groups throughout history. The conversation ended with a reflection on
the need to clear the line between the original teachings of Jesus Christ and
the distorted versions of Christianity that have emerged.

### British Empire's Influence on Christianity

Shawn and Atwell discussed their views on the British Empire's role in
Christianity and its influence on the world. They agreed that the British Empire
was one of the largest empires in history and played a significant role in
spreading Christianity. However, they also acknowledged that the church's
influence has diminished over time, particularly with the rise of technology and
the internet. They noted that people are now more likely to turn to online
influencers for spiritual guidance rather than attending church services. Atwell
mentioned a conversation with a pastor about the changing nature of the church
and the need for responsibility in the face of these changes. The conversation
ended with Shawn expressing concern about the direction of some Christian
influencers who are not focusing on Christ but rather on the devil.

### Gay Movement's Influence on Church

Atwell and Shawn discussed the influence of the gay movement on the church, with
Atwell expressing concern about the church's inability to stand up against the
movement's demands. Shawn argued that the church has lost its authority and
cannot defend itself or help those in need. They also discussed the issue of
homosexuality within the church, with Atwell noting that the gay movement is
telling the church authorities they have no right to preach against
homosexuality. Shawn countered that this is not happening as much as it is made
out to be. They also touched on the topic of legislation supporting the gay
movement, with Atwell mentioning a case where a woman refused to make a cake for
a gay couple and faced legal action. Shawn clarified that the woman won the
case. The conversation ended with Attlee joining the discussion, but the
transcript ended before he could contribute.

### Church and State, LGBTQ+ Rights

Attlee and Shawn discussed the role of the Church and the State in relation to
the rights of individuals, particularly those in the LGBTQ+ community. Attlee
emphasized the Church's authority and its responsibility to lead sinners to
Christ, while Shawn highlighted the importance of reflecting Christ's love in
all interactions. They also discussed the issue of gender-based bathrooms, with
Shawn suggesting the existence of unisex bathrooms in some places. The
conversation ended with a discussion on the Church's role in supporting
individuals with different lifestyles, with Shawn suggesting that the Church
should encourage them to save the Lord.

### Church's Role in Society and Morality

In the meeting, Shawn and Atwell discussed the role of the church in society,
particularly in relation to the gay community. Shawn argued that the church has
lost its moral authority due to its handling of certain issues, such as
homosexuality. Atwell countered that the church's purpose is to save people and
lead them to Christ, regardless of their background or lifestyle. They also
discussed the importance of distinguishing between religion and the church, with
Shawn suggesting that the church should be a place where people can challenge
common beliefs. The conversation ended with a discussion on the church's mission
to save people and lead them to Christ, with Atwell emphasizing that the church
should not dictate what its members believe.

### Church Acceptance and Support for All

Attlee and Shawn discussed the role of the church in addressing the struggles of
its members, particularly those dealing with homosexuality. Shawn shared his
experiences with a woman who felt unwelcome in church due to her tattoos and her
baby's noise. He emphasized that the church should focus on the individual's
desire to serve God, rather than their outward appearance or behavior. Attlee
agreed, stating that the church should be a place where all are welcome,
regardless of their struggles. They also discussed the importance of the church
being led by the spirit, rather than by human interpretation or judgment. The
conversation ended with a mutual understanding that the church should be a place
of acceptance and support for all its members.

### Christianity, Traditions, and Pagan Influences

Shawn and Attlee discuss the prevalence of issues like domestic abuse, suicide,
and youth leaving the church within Christianity. Shawn mentions statistics
showing many people want to know God without attending church or changing their
lifestyle. They debate whether certain traditions like celebrating Christmas
have pagan origins that conflict with true Christianity focused on following
Christ's teachings. Attlee argues that the intent behind practices matters more
than their historical roots, while Atwell cautions against blindly accepting
traditions that may have pagan influences. Ultimately, Shawn advises examining
one's convictions prayerfully rather than judging specific practices as right or
wrong.

### Christmas, Tattoos, Cults, and Daemons

In the meeting, Shawn and Atwell discussed their personal views on Christmas and
tattoos. Shawn expressed his discomfort with celebrating Christmas in church,
while Atwell shared his perspective on tattoos, stating that he doesn't have a
problem with them. They also discussed the Bible's stance on tattoos, with Shawn
mentioning that the Bible talks about marking on the hand or forehead. Atwell
and Shawn also discussed the concept of cults, with Atwell defining a cult as a
group led by a human leader who is considered infallible. They agreed that the
Adventist church could be considered a cult due to its reliance on Ellen White's
teachings. Lastly, they touched on the topic of daemons, but no specific details
were provided.

### Demonic Possession and Mental Illness

In the meeting, Shawn, Attlee, and Trevor discussed the concept of demonic
possession and its relation to mental illness. Attlee suggested that mental
illness could be a spiritual disease, while Shawn proposed that some instances
of demonic possession might be misinterpreted as mental illness. They also
discussed the possibility of spiritual power and its connection to demonic
possession. The conversation then shifted to the topic of "born again"
experiences, with Attlee suggesting that the concept of accepting Christ is a
fundamental part of this experience. The conversation ended with a prayer led by
Attlee, expressing gratitude for the discussion and seeking guidance and
blessings for all present.
