---
title: "Understanding Sin and God's Character"
pubDate: 2025-02-09
description:
  "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more
  abundantly"
author: "Astro Basics"
image:
  url: "/images/sin.webp"
  alt: " "
  caption: " "
tags: ["astro", "blogging", "learning in public"]
publish: true
---

<div style="height: 228px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://audio.com/embed/audio/1823580648831310?theme=image"
    style="display:block; border-radius: 1px; border: none; height: 204px; width: 100%;"
  ></iframe>
  <a
    href="https://audio.com/shawn-sandy"
    style="text-align: center; display: block; color: #A4ABB6; font-size: 12px; font-family: sans-serif; line-height: 16px; margin-top: 8px; overflow: hidden; white-space: nowrap; text-overflow: ellipsis;"
  ></a>
</div>

---

## Study Notes

The team discussed the concept of sin and its relationship with God's character.
Kurt defined sin as inward self-centeredness, which manifests in fear, greed,
and lust. Bianca agreed, adding that sin is not just about behavior but also
about intent. They also discussed the importance of understanding God's heart
and character in determining what is sin. Kurt emphasized that God's love is
other-centered, serving others even when they do not reciprocate. Bianca agreed,
but also highlighted the need for a conversation rather than a definition to
fully understand the concept. The team also touched on the idea of
God-centeredness, with Kurt suggesting that it is about aligning oneself with

## Christ's Righteousness and Repentance Discussed

In the meeting, Atwell and Bianca discussed the concept of Christ being their
righteousness. They explored the idea that Christ's righteousness is not just
about walking in the best practices, but also about understanding that Christ
has taken all their sins upon Himself. They discussed the concept of repentance
and forgiveness, and how it relates to their relationship with God. Kurt and
Shawn also contributed to the discussion, emphasizing the importance of
understanding that sin is an act, not a condition, and that believers are not
lost when they sin, but rather, they are in a state of separation from God that
can be resolved through repentance and forgiveness. The team also discussed the
idea that believers are saved and then lost, and then saved again, depending on
their actions and relationship with God.

## Sin, Righteousness, and Reconciliation Discussed

The team discussed the concept of sin and its relationship with the state of
righteousness. They agreed that sin is a state that we are born into, as a
result of Adam's act, and that it is not just an individual act. They also
discussed the idea that the act of sin is a symptom of the state of sin, and
that repentance for an individual sin does not fix the condition. The team also
explored the idea that Christ came to reconcile us back to God and place us in a
state of righteousness. They concluded that the state of righteousness is not
just about individual acts, but about being reconciled to God. The team also
discussed the difference between Adam and Eve's situation and ours, with Adam
and Eve having the option to stay righteous, while we are born in a state of
sin.

# Salvation, Spirit, and Righteousness

In the meeting, Atwell, Kurt, Bianca, and Shawn discussed the concept of
salvation and the role of the Spirit in a believer's life. Atwell emphasized the
importance of walking in the Spirit and the consequences of turning away from
it. Kurt argued that even when a believer falls into sin, they are still in
Christ and not lost. Bianca and Shawn agreed that salvation is not based on
actions but on faith in Christ, and that the Spirit works in believers to help
them overcome sin. The group also discussed the idea of righteousness by faith
and the need to understand and accept Christ's sacrifice for our sins. The
conversation ended with the group expressing a desire to continue studying and
discussing these topics.  
AI-generated content may be inaccurate or misleading. Always check for accuracy.
